Okta SCIM configuration guide (#1162)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/okta-sso/scim-configuration.mdx

---
title: "Okta SCIM Configuration"
description: Configure Okta SCIM provisioning for RudderStack.
aliases: ["Okta SCIM"]
---

This guide lets you configure Okta's [SCIM provisioning](https://www.okta.com/blog/2017/01/what-is-scim/) feature to automatically grant RudderStack access to your users.  It is divided into the following sections:

- [Supported features](#supported-features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Configuration steps](#configuration-steps)
- [Known issues](#known-issues)

## Supported features

Currently, RudderStack supports the followin provisioning features:

- **Push users**: You can create or link a user in RudderStack when assigning the app to a user in Okta.
- **Update user attributes**: Okta updates a user's attributes in RudderStack when the app is assigned to them. Note that any future attribute changes made to the Okta user's profile will automatically overwrite the corresponding attribute value in RudderStack.

<div class="infoBlock">

> Currently, you can update only the user's display name. Updating the email is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, you can only update the user's display name. Updating the email is not supported.
```

</div>

- **Deactivate/reactivate users**: This feature deactivates a user's RudderStack account when it is unassigned in Okta or their Okta account is deactivated. To reactivate the account, you can reassign the app to the user in Okta.

<div class="infoBlock">

> When a user is deactivated through SCIM, RudderStack does not delete the user from its database; it only revokes their organization user role leading to them losing access to their workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user is deactivated through SCIM, RudderStack does not delete the user from its database; it only revokes their organization user role leading to the loss of their workspace access.
```

</div>

## Requirements

> To configure the SCIM app, you need a <Link to="/dashboard-guides/personal-access-token/">personal access token</Link> with **administrative privileges**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the SCIM app, you need a <Link to="/dashboard-guides/personal-access-token/">personal access token</Link> with **admin privileges**.
```
Just coz we mention admin role in PAT guide.. for clarity

Follow these steps to create a new personal access token:

1. Log in to the RudderStack workspace you want to enable SCIM for. Note that your role in the organization must of the <Link to="/dashboard-guides/user-management/#admin">Admin</Link> type.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Account** tab and scroll down to **Personal access tokens**. Then, click **Generate new token**, as shown:

<img src="../../../assets/rudderstack-api/personal-access-token-1.png" alt="New personal access token in RudderStack dashboard" />

> 3. Enter the token and from the **Role** dropdown, select **Admin**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter the token name and select **Admin** from the **Role** dropdown.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Set an appropriate name for the token as it will be used for configuring SCIM.
</div>

> 4. Click **Generate** and save the token details securely. It will **not** be visible again once you close this window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Generate** and save the token securely. It will **not** be visible again once you close this window.
```

<div class="warningBlock">
Make sure your user role and personal access token have <Link to="/dashboard-guides/user-management/#admin">Admin</Link> privileges, otherwise your SCIM provisioning tasks will fail.
</div>

## Configuration steps

1. Log in to Okta as an administrator.

> 2. In the sidebar, go to **Applications** > **Applications** and select your SSO app.

Reviewer: confirming if **Applications** > **Applications** is correct route?

Author: yep yep - there's an Applications option beneath the Applications setting

3. Go to the **General** tab, click **Edit** and check the **Enable SCIM provisioning** option, as shown: 

<img src="../../../assets/user-guides/scim-1.png" alt="Enable SCIM provisioning" />

4. A new tab called **Provisioning** will now be visible in the app settings. Go to **Integration**, click **Edit** and enter the following details:

> | Setting | Value |

Reviewer: thinking if we can skip this table and just highlight the setting values in the image. The current structure just makes me verify the values at both places :)

Author: got it - would reversing the order (image followed by the table) be more helpful? just want to provide all the values for the settings, for easy reference.

Author: as discussed, let's retain both for now and review once we work on the user-facing docs.
